Demand Transfer Estimation at Scale via Restricted
Logit Modeling
Lakshya Garg, Deep Narayan Mishra, Swapnil Yadav, Haoan Wang,
Sujal Alugubelli, Karthik Kumaran, Anupriya Sharma
Walmart Global Tech, Sunnyvale, CA, USA
{lakshya.garg, deep.mishra, swapnil.yadav, haoan.wang,
sujal.alugubelli, karthik.kumaran, anupriya.sharma0}@walmart.com
© 2026 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including
reprinting/republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or
reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works.
Abstract—Item demand forecasting is an integral component
of store assortment optimization (SAO). Existing literature
focuses on learning a suitable customer choice model and using
this model to determine the value of an objective function
(i.e. expected demand) with respect to an assortment proposal.
However, for large item universe with many categories, this
approach can prove inefficient, needing a separate demand
forecast
for
every
possible
item
assortment.
An
alternate
approach to SAO exists whereby we combine the efficiency of
forecasting item demand independently, while at the same time
applying adjustments to the independent forecasts that account
for the relations between item demand and the availability of
other similar items on the shelf.
Central to this approach is the estimation of Demand Transfer
(DT) coefficients. These DT coefficients represent the percent of
a particular target item’s (Item that the customer walked in the
store to buy) demand that is redirected to each other item in the
universe should the target item be removed from the shelf. We
introduce an approach that allows us to compute these DT co-
efficients on large item universes (assortments having 1 million+
items). Experiments on data as well as historical transaction data
for multiple locations within categories demonstrate that when
certain reasonable assumptions about substitution behavior are
satisfied, our procedure is able to accurately estimate underlying
DT coefficients and lead to improvements in demand forecasting.
Index Terms—Demand Transfer, Multinomial Logit, Markov
Chain model, Item Substitutes, Demand Forecasting
I. INTRODUCTION
With
the
widespread
adoption
of
eCommerce
retail
platforms, it has become more important than ever for
physical stores to make data driven decisions to remain
competitive. One of the single most important decisions
a brick-and-mortar retailer can make is Store Assortment
Optimization (SAO), the decision of which items to stock
on a particular shelf, and how many of each item to carry[4,
7]. Such systems typically involve the maximization of
some objective function (typically a function of revenue,
demand, or some other business metrics) with respect to
some constraints (e.g. physical shelf space). Among the most
important inputs to an SAO framework are the individual
item demand forecasts. These predictions are used to estimate
the expected total revenue that corresponds to a particular
proposed assortment.
However,
due
to
physical
constraints,
item
demand
forecasting within a brick-and-mortar context can prove
difficult, because the demand profiles of individual items
within a shelf are often dependent on the availability of
other similar items that may serve a similar need. Such
correlations between the items mean we cannot model the
time series corresponding to an items’ demand independently
of the other items we intend to put on the shelf alongside it.
This phenomenon of demand cannibalization and customer
preference of buying other items is also a part of Demand
transference (DT) and is amplified when on-shelf assortments
are consistently modified [12].
Below we talk about the mathematical formulation of DT.
Consider two items i, j in an assortment A = {i, j} that
both fulfill a certain customer need (i.e., they are substitutable
products as discussed in Section III-A (Item Substitution)). Let
us have an estimate of the expected total demand DA of this
assortment, given by
E[DA] = E[Di,A] + E[Dj,A],
(1)
where Di,A and Dj,A are random variables (with known
distributions) representing the demand of items i and j,
respectively, under assortment A. We assume that a customer
who is interested in purchasing item i would also be willing
to purchase item j - as they are substitutable items - with
probability ρij ::= P(i →j) in the case that i is not available
for purchase but all other items in the universe are available.
Suppose that we wish to compute the expected total demand
E[DA′] of a modified assortment A′, consisting of only item j.
This means that if item i is removed from the shelf, we cannot
compute the expected demand of the modified assortment by
simply subtracting and using equation 1
E[Dj,A′]̸ = E[Dj,A] = E[DA] −E[Di,A],
(2)
because we cannot consider all of the demand that item i
would have received under assortment A to be totally lost.
Some portion of it, P(i →j), is expected to transfer to item
j, provided that item j is available for purchase, as is the case
in assortment A′. So the correct formulation of E[DA′] should
be:
E[DA′] = ρij E[Di,A] + E[Dj,A]
(3)
arXiv:2608.12680v1  [cs.LG]  13 Aug 2026


Here ρij ( P(i →j)) captures the additional demand that
would be transferred to item j. This ρij is called Demand
Transference (DT) from item i to item j.
Most approaches to solve demand of similar items have
used a Choice Model as a component in a broader function
that describes Revenue or some suitable objective function,
which is then optimized as seen in Abdallah and Vulcano [3],
Fisher and Vaidyanathan [7], this is computationally unsuitable
for large item universe and for our downstream SAO use case
of identifying how many units of each SKU should be put
on the shelf. For our use case explicit transfer coefficients
between items are needed, which some works such as Blanchet
et al. [5], S¸ims¸ek and Topaloglu [14] have dealt with using a
Markov Chain model. However, the methods used by Blanchet
et al. [5], S¸ims¸ek and Topaloglu [14] to estimate transition
probabilities suffer from scaling and stability issues for very
large item universes. The work that we propose in this paper is
a modification of the Markov Chain model to estimate explicit
transfer coefficients between items leveraging a substitution
framework that makes the original algorithm scalable for a
huge item universe (1 million+ items). This scalability is of
utmost importance because:
• As with most modern retailers, whether small or large,
assortments typically consist of at least ten thousands of
items.
• Assortment sizes continue to grow as consumers demand
an ever-increasing variety of choices especially in General
merchandise (GM) categories .
As our proposed method is scalable across huge item sets we
can extend DT to all categories, thereby enabling any retailer
big or small to make more data driven assortment decisions.
II. RELATED WORK
One way to account for DT effects within the demand
modeling process is to control for them by separately mod-
eling an item’s demand Di,a under each potential assortment
a ∈{X | X ⊆U}, where U denotes the (universe) set of
items under analysis. This formulation has been adopted in
much of the relevant literature, in which a general revenue
function r : 2U →R is maximized by identifying an optimal
subset of items from the universe. DT is incorporated through
the inclusion of a customer choice model that provides the
probability that a customer will purchase item j given that a
subset S ⊆U is available on the shelf.
The other way of solving the DT problem has focused on
identifying a suitable choice model and then estimating its pa-
rameters (Abdallah and Vulcano [3], Fisher and Vaidyanathan
[7]), or directly estimating its function if it is a non-parametric
model, as in Arias et al. [6]. These approach as are inadequate
for our purposes for two main reasons.
1) A large retail operation may contain thousands of cate-
gories, each with very large item counts, which makes
such an approach computationally impractical. For a
single category U, performing an optimization over all
possible item-availability combinations would require as
many as |U| · 2|U| separate time-series forecasts.
2) Most possible assortments will not have been historically
implemented in any stores due to the large item count,
leading to a lack of data to make reliable demand
forecasts corresponding to these assortments. This un-
reliability in the demand forecasts for historically un-
seen combinations could prevent the discovery of novel
optimal assortments during the optimization step.
3) Finally, the above approaches only consider the question
of which items to make available on the shelf and not
how many of each of those selected items should be put
on shelf. As our optimization engine must answer both
of these questions we require explicit DT coefficients.
We also look at the work done by Fisher and Vaidyanathan
[7],
which
considers
estimation
of
all
inter-item
DT
probabilities (there referred to as substitution probabilities)
with respect to a certain attribute. However, the focus of
that work is primarily in improving downstream revenues;
the probability estimates are computed alongside the primary
demand estimates in the optimization of a joint likelihood
function on observed sales data. Furthermore there is no
validation procedure dedicated to the quality of the probability
estimates themselves; they are treated as latent parameters in
a global revenue optimization, which as highlighted above is
not suitable for our use case.
One important line of research originated in the work of
Blanchet et al. [5] and was continued by S¸ims¸ek and Topaloglu
[14]. These authors consider analysis of customer DT behavior
as a sequence of transitions between states (corresponding
to items) in a Markov Chain, whose transition matrix may
be interpreted as our desired DT matrix ρ. However, the
method for estimation of the transition probabilities provided
by Blanchet et al. [5] requires non-sparsity in historically
available assortments, which is not the case in our setting,
and while this is avoided in the expectation-maximization
algorithm provided by S¸ims¸ek and Topaloglu [14], their
approach suffers from numerical instability at scale since the
involved linear systems can become inconsistent for large
item universes, and computation is slow when many possible
subsets are considered [14]. One workaround would be to
estimate the parameters of multiple smaller such models, each
on a disjoint partition of the overall item universe. However,
in our context, a natural way of partitioning an item category
is unavailable due to overlapping need states, in our use case
need state is defined by the purpose the item is fulfilling for
the customer. Thus, a the original implementation of Markov
Chain model was unsuitable in our setting.
A key result shown in Blanchet et al. [5] is that a Markov
Chain choice model becomes mathematically equivalent to a
Multinomial Logit (MNL) model when the Markov Chain’s
transition matrix has rank one—that is, when every item has
the same pattern of transition probabilities to all other items
in the assortment. This equivalence is important because
the MNL model is far more scalable and computationally
efficient than a general Markov Chain model. Therefore, we


leverage this result—together with reasonable assumptions
about customer demand—to estimate the parameters of an
MNL model. Once the MNL parameters are estimated,
we apply a simple transformation to interpret them as the
transition probabilities of an equivalent Markov Chain choice
model.
We also note that when an item is removed from the shelf, it
is often the case that a portion of its demand does not transfer
to any other item. This corresponds to the no-purchase option
[14], which can be interpreted as demand transferring to a
special item ϕ that is always available for purchase but is not
considered part of any assortment. We estimate the quantities
ρiϕ for all i ∈U (U denotes the item universe) using business-
rule-based deterministic logic from historical item availability
and observed demand retention behavior, and then allocate the
remaining fraction of transferable demand across other items
in proportion to their standard DT coefficients.
In addition to the assortment optimization and choice-
modeling literature, product cannibalization has been exten-
sively studied in marketing science and retail analytics. Ma-
son and Milne (1994) [19] investigated methods for identi-
fying cannibalization effects within product line extensions
and multi-brand strategies, highlighting the importance of
quantifying demand redistribution between related products.
More recently, Xu (2025) [20] proposed a clustering-based
approach for detecting product cannibalization using price ef-
fects, demonstrating the increasing use of data-driven methods
to characterize substitution behavior. These studies reinforce
the importance of understanding demand interactions between
products, although most focus on cannibalization detection
rather than estimating explicit item-to-item demand transfer
coefficients at the scale considered in this work.
III. ITEM SUBSTITUTION FRAMEWORK
In the following section we go over our item substitution
framework which when used in conjunction to our proposed
modification of MNL algorithm makes the original algorithm
scalable.
A. Item Substitution
Item substitution is a symmetric, anti-reflexive[1], and non-
transitive relation corresponding to the similarity of two items
from a customer’s perspective. High substitutability between
two items means that in general, customers are willing to
purchase one item in the others place, or consider them
functionally equivalent. This suggests that all substitutable
items with respect to a given target item can serve as an
implicit characterization of the target item within the same
need state.
This
characterization
offers
an
additional
advantage:
together with the known equivalence between a rank-one
Markov chain transition matrix and an MNL model [5],
we can seamlessly integrate the parameters of a choice
model to produce the final DT coefficients. As our choice
model assumes IIA (Independence of Irrelevant Alternatives
discussed in subsection 4.1), we directly incorporate the set
of substitutable items as a condition on the marginal purchase
probabilities.
According
to
assumption
3
(discussed
in
subsection
4.1), conditioning the probability distribution on a specific
set S being the set of substitutes for a removed item i
is equivalent to conditioning on the need state of i. This
relationship provides the required conditional probabilities to
characterize demand-transfer behavior. When taken together,
these assumptions imply that modeling the item-to-item DT
coefficient ρij reduces to two steps:
1) Identifying the subset S ⊆U of items that are substi-
tutable for item i
2) Modeling customer choice as the probability distribution
of an arbitrary customer purchasing among only the
items in S that are currently available.
B. Calculation of Substitute Scores
Prior work on estimating the substitutability of items has
focused on utilizing customer purchase data to determine the
substitutability of an item pair. Typically, when the same
customer is observed to have repeatedly purchased two dif-
ferent items under similar conditions, this pattern is taken as
a positive signal that the items are substitutes.
We develop a comprehensive framework that addresses the
complexity of real-world substitution patterns. The theoretical
foundation for modeling substitution builds on discrete choice
theory and customer utility maximization. We assume that
customers have underlying preferences that can be modeled
probabilistically.
Our approach to detect substitutability between items is to
introduce a so-called Substitution Score for every pair of items.
The substitution relation introduced previously corresponds to
an indicator sij ∈{0, 1} for a given item pair (i, j), which
equals 1 if and only if the two products serve a similar need-
state, and thus should be considered as candidates for demand
transfer for each-other.
We define sij, ∀(i, j) ∈U as follows:
sij = I(θij ≥τ);
θij, τ ∈R
(4)
where θij represents the result of a decision variable for
items i, j and τ represents a threshold value with U being the
item universe. It is this θij which we refer to as our substitute
score, and is a continuous variable expressing the degree to
which i, j are related. If θij is above our chosen threshold, we
can conclude that i, j are substitutes of one another.
One challenge we faced was that no single method of
computing such a decision variable θij and threshold τ proved
applicable for all pairs of items within our universe. Different
item categories exhibit vastly different operational scales and
purchase frequencies. For example, using in-store co-purchase
patterns proved very useful for complement detection for pairs
with high purchase frequencies, but less so for items with


highly seasonal demand. This meant that we had to employ a
variety of different methodologies for computing the substitute
scores for different sets of item pairs, depending on which
signals were appropriate to a particular context.
Below we talk about all different methodologies used for
calculating substitute scores between item pairs.
C. Store Yule’s Q Methodology
The most reliable kind of data with respect to estimating
substitute scores for an DT context is the historical store
customer purchase data itself. Representing the ultimate source
of ground-truth (the actual purchase decisions of customers).
Methodologies that use this kind of data can only be relied
upon when we have sufficiently many purchases of both
items (target and substitutable item) under question to decide
whether their purchase patterns are (statistically) significantly
associated. This condition is satisfied by many item pairs in
our universe, and the methodology we use to measure their
substitutability is called the Store Yule’s Q (YQ) score.
The first step in calculating a pair’s Store Yule’s Q score
is to compute its Odds Ratio (OR). The OR is a measure of
association between two events. It is a metric ranging from 0
to ∞and is defined as the relative probability between event
1 given event 2 and the probability of event 1 given event 2
does not happen. Mathematically, the OR between events A
and B is:
OR = nA∩B
nB∩AC ÷ nA∩BC
n(A∪B)C = nA∩B × n(A∪B)C
nB∩AC × nA∩BC
(5)
where nx is the number of times event x occurred.
In the context of our retail data, we apply this OR cal-
culation to customers and baskets separately to determine the
association and distinction between same customer purchasing
different items vs same basket containing different items.
Odds ratios can then be standardized into a Yule’s Q number
using the following formula:
YQ = OR −1
OR + 1
(6)
which ranges from −1 to 1.
D. Customer Odds Ratio
One of the key inputs into the substitute Yule’s Q metric is
the Customer Odds Ratio. For items A and B, it is calculated
as follows:
ORcust = nCustA∩B × nCust(A∪B)C
nCustB∩AC × nCustA∩BC
(7)
where nCustx indicates the number of customers that have
purchased x.
TABLE I
SUBSTITUTION SCORE INTERPRETATION
Score Range
Description
> 0
Customers that buy one product are more likely to buy the other
product than someone who has not.
= 0
Buying one of the products does not change the likelihood a
customer will buy the other.
< 0
Customers that purchase one of the products are less likely to buy
the other.
E. Basket Odds Ratio
Although the Customer odds ratio is a useful metric for
detecting items with a high association from a customer pur-
chase perspective, its utility is hampered by the fact that items
that are highly dissimilar but are often purchased together
(i.e., complements such as bread and butter) will also tend
to have high association along with true substitutes. In order
to filter these complement pairs out, we utilize another metric
called a Basket Odds Ratio, which measures the association
of two items from a cart/basket perspective. The formula for
this basket odds ratio is:
ORbasket = nBasketA∩B × nBasket(A∪B)C
nBasketB∩AC × nBasketA∩BC
(8)
where nBasketx indicates the number of baskets that contain
x in the data.
Before a substitute odds ratio is created, an adjustment is
made to the customer odds ratio:
ORCust-Adj = min(ORCust, ORBasket + 10)
(9)
This adjustment is used to reduce the effect of extremely
large customer odds ratios on final substitute scores, particu-
larly when the basket odds ratio is also large.
A substitute odds ratio is then calculated from the adjusted
customer and basket odds ratios using the following formula:
ORsubs =
ORCust-Adj
ORBasket + 1
(10)
By substituting Equation 10 in Equation 6 a Substitute
Yule’s Q score is created. Therefore we get a final continuous
substitute score (which corresponds to our decision variable
θij for all i, j ∈U mentioned in the methodology) in the
range [−1, 1]
F. Threshold Selection
Throughout this work, items with substitution scores greater
than 0.6 are considered substitutes. The threshold was selected
based on empirical evaluation conducted during model de-
velopment. Lower thresholds increased substitute-set coverage
but introduced a larger number of weak substitution relation-
ships that frequently corresponded to complementary rather
0The additive constant of 10 was introduced in equation number 9 as a
regularization parameter to limit the influence of extreme customer odds ratios.


than substitutable products. Conversely, higher thresholds im-
proved precision but reduced substitute-set coverage, limiting
measurable demand-transfer effects.
G. Low selling / new items
New/low selling items often lack the historical sales data
required to generate reliable substitution scores through Store
Yule’s Q. To address this cold-start/low velocity item problem,
we employ SBERT-based similarity models that leverage prod-
uct attributes, including item descriptions, brand, and price, to
rank the most similar items within the assortment and infer
potential substitute relationships.
IV. MNL FRAMEWORK
In the following section we go over our proposed MNL
Framework.
A. Modeling Demand Transfer Coefficients
As our DT proportions are used as multiplicative factors
of expected demand forecasts, they can be interpreted as
probabilities. The estimation of ρ := {ρij}i,j∈U amounts to
estimating a set of conditional probabilities ρij := P(Bj | Ii),
where Bj denotes the event that an arbitrary customer ulti-
mately purchases item j, and Ii denotes the event that the
customer initially intended to purchase item i, and that every
item in U was available except for i.
In our characterization of DT effects via the stochastic
coefficient matrix ρ ∈[0, 1]|U|×|U|, the value of each element
ρij is determined by two phenomena:
1) Item Loyalty: For certain items, when they become
unavailable for purchase, some customers are unwilling
to switch to any alternative. Also referred as the no-
purchase option.
2) Item switching: If a customer is willing to switch to
an alternative item, their preferences over the remaining
available items are distributed according to the need state
fulfilled by the item they originally intended to purchase.
With respect to these phenomena, we make the following
modeling assumptions:
Assumption 1: Item loyalty and item switching preferences
are independent factors. That is,
Dij = (1 −ρiϕ) · ρij,
where
Dij
represents
the
final
percentage
of
demand
transferred from item i to item j after accounting for the
no-purchase option.
We only have access to historical (observational) sales
data corresponding to purchase outcomes under a limited
scope of historical assortments. This presents the issue that
many demand transfer scenarios for which we must produce
predictions have never occurred in the past, and are difficult
to estimate directly. Furthermore, we do not have access to
the underlying preferences of the historical customers, but
only their final purchase decisions in a variety of availability
scenarios. This presents additional difficulty in characterizing
a purchase as a result of demand transferred to another item,
or as a result of initial interest in the item.
For these two above reason, we adopt a statistical modeling
approach for customer choice that obeys an IIA assumption,
and estimate its parameters using the available observational
purchase/availability data. The result of this approach is a set
of parameters, one for each item in the universe, that can be
interpreted as that item’s ”mean utility” across customers [14,
17]. By virtue of the IIA assumption, the utility parameters
can be passed through a simple transformation to yield
a probability distribution (corresponding to probability of
purchase) over all items in the universe [17].
we take into account the need state fulfilled by a particular
item when determining its DT coefficients from the choice
model parameters as distribution over the entire item universe
cannot by itself be considered as a representation of demand
transfer. So given a customer had some initial interest in
the initial purchase item it should indicate some degree of
interest in similar substitutable items and no interest at all in
items of an entirely different nature. Given this we make our
second assumption.
Assumption 2: Item switching preferences are entirely de-
termined by the underlying need state associated with an initial
interest in the deleted item. That is,
ρij = P(Bj | Ii) = P(Bj | Ni)
where Ni denotes the event that the customer has the need
state associated with item i, and that all items in the universe
except i are available. A consequence of assumption 2 is that
an item’s Demand Transfer profile depends not on the item
itself, but on that item’s need state.
Assumption 3: The need state corresponding to a customer’s
initial interest in a particular item is fully characterized by the
set of items that are sufficiently substitutable for it. That is,
P(Bj | Ii) = P(Bj | Ni) = P
 Bj
 only {m ∈U | σmi = 1})
where σmi is an indicator function equal to 1 whenever m and
i are substitutable items. Moreover, these substitutable items
are the only items to which a customer initially interested in
purchasing item i would consider switching.
The last Assumption 3, is important for justifying our
approach, it states that item–switching behavior is statistically
dependent on the initial preference only through the set of
items that a customer would consider as substitutes. If three
items i, j, and k belong in the same substitute set S ⊆{i, j, k},
then, ρij the probability that a customer initially interested in
item i will instead purchase item j is equal to the probability
that an arbitrary customer would purchase item j given that
only the subset of substitutes for i is available for purchase.
In other words the customers probability of buying item j
given item i is unavailable will remain independent from the


different combination of substitutes of item i present on the
shelf.
The reduction in specificity brought by the combination of
assumption 1, 2, and 3 makes our proposed method scalable.
B. Data Preparation
Expanding on our first assumption, we restrict our attention
to modeling the item–item DT coefficients only, as there is
no correlation between DT coefficient values and the values
of the no-purchase probabilities for each item. Therefore,
we leverage historical sales data, which does not contain
information on no-purchase signals and includes only cases
where customers decided to make a purchase.
We first take the transaction data and aggregate it to the
store–item–week level. The result is a matrix Z ∈NT ×n,
where T is the number of store-weeks in our transaction
history, and n is the number of items in the universe being
considered. Each row Zi ∈Nn of this matrix represents
the purchase counts of each item in our universe during the
corresponding store-week i.
We then use out-of-stock (OOS) data and historical assort-
ment data to create a matrix W ∈{0, 1}T ×n (note that this
has the same shape as our purchase matrix Z), where each row
Wi ∈{0, 1}n is a vector of binary indicators. Each element
Wij is equal to 1 if and only if item j was both: (1) on plan
to be kept on the store shelf (part of the modular plan) for the
category during store-week i, and (2) was actually available
during store-week i. Constructing this requires joining the
OOS and modular plan tables and taking the set intersection
of the two.
Note that one can also construct the matrices W and Z
at a per-purchase level (with T representing the number of
customers, rather than store-weeks), where each row represents
the availability presented to and the purchase decision made by
a single customer. In this case, the matrix Z would be binary.
Due to the form of the log-likelihood function in Abdallah and
Vulcano [3], fitting the model using data constructed at the
store-week level is equivalent to fitting it at the per-purchase
level. We use the former in our implementation.
C. Multinomial Logit (MNL) Model
Multinomial Logit (MNL) models are a class of choice
models [17] that have been widely used in econometrics and
in revenue-management tasks such as SAO [3,6,14,18]. We
follow the standard description of the MNL model given in
S¸ims¸ek and Topalo˘glu [14].
MNL models are popular largely because they rely on the
previously mentioned IIA assumption [6]. This assumption
greatly simplifies the statistical modeling problem by stating
that the ratio of the log-odds of purchasing any two items is
independent of the availability of other items [17]. In practice,
this allows us to treat the purchase probabilities of items,
given an offer set, as a function of a fixed parameter vector
of item utilities. This function takes the form of a softmax
transformation [14,17].
In the MNL model, the mean utility parameter of an item
i ∈U is ηi. If we offer a subset O ⊆U of items, then the
probability that a customer purchases item i is
eηi
P
j∈O eηj .
The likelihood function corresponding to the parameter
vector η = (ηi)i∈U is given in Abdallah and Vulcano [3]:
L(η) =
n
X
j=1
Kjηj −
T
X
t=1
mt log
 X
i∈St
exp(ηi)
!
,
where mt = Pn
i=1 Zit represents the total number of pur-
chases in period t (or a single purchase if the data is generated
at a per-purchase level, in which case mt = 1), and Kj =
PT
t=1 Zjt represents the total number of purchases of item
j ∈U over the observed historical period. One can efficiently
maximize this function using the minorization–maximization
method described in Abdallah and Vulcano [3].
Logit Models (LM) such as the MNL, despite their
widespread use have two important drawbacks which hinders
their usefulness for our specific optimization approach,
especially at the scale at which we operate
Firstly with respect to computing DT coefficients, the
output of a random utility model such as the MNL consists
in a vector of item preference utilities. These utilities can be
used to determine, given an offer set O ⊆U, the probability
distribution of customer purchase over all of the items in
O. However, the output of a choice model yields only a
marginal distribution of probabilities with respect to an item’s
need state, since the conditional output of a choice model
is conditional only on the availability of items on offer [6].
In particular, a customer’s initial item preference determines
the particular need state they are trying to fulfill, which
will affect the set of items they are willing to consider for
purchase in the items place, if the initial item happens to be
off-shelf.
Therefore, the need state of an item needs to factor into the
choice modeling analysis. Prior work has typically addressed
this issue by performing analysis itself at an item hierarchy
level that includes only items fulfilling the same need state.
Vulcano et al [18], for example, consider a set of flights all
serving the same Origin–Destination pair. A natural implemen-
tation of this strategy in our setting would be to fit a separate
MNL model for each disjoint group of items fulfilling a single
need state. Then, for each item i, set the DT estimate
ˆρij =
exp ˆηG
j
P
k∈S\{i} exp ˆηG
k
,
∀j ∈G,
and
ˆρij = 0,
∀j /∈G,
where ˆηG is the estimated parameter vector of the model
trained on the partition G ⊆U that contains i.


For our use case, this solution was impractical, because
existing business hierarchy levels (1) are too numerous
to render computation practical, (2) fail to either directly
separate items by need-state, or (3) fail to satisfy the needed
mutual disjointness property to keep the analysis well-defined.
Thus, in our solution, we perform the analysis at a category
level, which allows us to fit more precise models to item
sub-universes instead of a general model fit to all categories
(which would be inaccurate), but also does not yield an
impractical number of choice models to be estimated.
However, since item categories contain multiple need states
which can overlap (are not disjoint), we leverage our item
substitution scores.
We then use the category-level utility estimates and
leverage the IIA condition to allow us to restrict attention
only to highly-substitutable (with substitution score > 0.6)
items during inference, which is enabled by assumptions
1,2, and 3 above. The IIA condition allows us to use MNL
parameters to construct a valid probability distribution over
the substitutes of the deleted item i using our category-level
utilities, and interpret that as the probability that an arbitrary
customer purchases any of the substitutes given that the
substitutes are the only ones on offer.
Finally, because we assume all DT coefficients across
different need states are zero assumption 3, a Markov Chain
model’s transition probabilities for the items in a particular
need state could be entirely characterized by its submatrix for
that need-state. Furthermore, because of assumption 2, the
rows of this matrix would be identical because the transition
probabilities from any item state i is fully determined by i’s
need-state. So the matrix would have rank one, and thus as
established in Theorem 3.1 of Blanchet et al. [5], we can
interpret these MNL probabilities as transition probabilities,
i.e. Demand Transfer coefficients.
Our newly proposed modified approach enables us to avoid
the pitfalls of both having to artificially partition a category
into subsets not precisely representing correct need states,
as well incur the computational cost by training many in-
dependent models for each partition. We therefore call our
improved algorithm a Restricted Logit model, emphasizing
the additional constraints to our inference we impose via the
use of substitution. We discuss more details of our modified
approach in the subsection Restricted Logit Model.
D. Restricted Logit Model
Having computed our substitute scores σ ∈[−1, 1] for every
item pair in our universe, we now have an indicator, for each
item i, whether or not another item j should be considered
a candidate for demand transfer. Recall that fundamentally,
a positive substitution indicator between a pair of items i, j
indicates that if one of the items in the pair is deleted, then the
other should be considered a candidate for demand transfer.
Otherwise, ρij = 0.
The discussion in subsection ”Multinomial Logit (MNL)
Model” presents a natural way of incorporating our need-state
information, as determined by our substitution indicators, into
the Demand Transfer coefficient calculation of our Restricted
Logit Model. This means, that given utility estimates ˆη =
(ˆηn)n∈U, the final DT coefficient estimates for any given i ∈
U should be given by:
ˆρij =
exp ˆηj
P
k∈S\{i} exp ˆηk
,
∀j ∈S
(11)
ˆρij = 0,
∀j ∈U \ S
(12)
ˆρii = 0,
∀i ∈U
(13)
where S ⊆U is the set of all substitutes for i.
We implemented the MNL fitting procedure described in
(Abdallah and Vulcano [3]) for our Restricted Logit model
across all categories using NumPy [8] and parallelized this
algorithm across categories using Spark [15], parallelized
across categories using internal distribute system.
V. RESULTS AND FINDINGS
To evaluate our model we perform offline backtesting on
historical transaction data for items across a representative
sample of locations for multiple categories.
Logic:
1) Post training the model on one year of transaction data,
we keep the last two months of data as a test set.
2) For this test set, we source the forecast and the actual
sales observed for each item.
3) We compute two WMAPE metrics:
a) Forecast MAPE:
MAPEforecast =
X |Forecast −Actual|
|Actual|
b) Adjusted MAPE:
MAPEadjusted =
X |Adjusted Demand −Actual|
|Actual|
c) Adjusted WMAPE weighted against the actual
units sold for the item:
WMAPE =
P(Actual · MAPE)
P(Actual)
d) The adjusted demand for item i is defined as
˜Di = ˆDi + ρji ˆDj + ρki ˆDk,
where
ˆDi,
ˆDj, and
ˆDk denote the forecasted
demands of items i, j, and k, respectively.
Given items {i, j, k} form a subset S ⊆U of
the item universe and are assumed to be mutually
substitutable.
Table II reports offline backtesting results for a representa-
tive sample of locations across 50 categories (selected to span


TABLE II
FORECAST VS ADJUSTED WMAPE ACROSS LOCATIONS
Location
Forecast WMAPE
Adjusted WMAPE
Difference
A
0.28
0.21
-0.07
B
0.16
0.10
-0.06
C
0.02
0.03
+0.01
D
0.16
0.08
-0.08
E
0.18
0.07
-0.11
consumables and general merchandise with varying demand
characteristics). The general trend observed was that appre-
ciable reductions in forecast error occurred more frequently
at locations with a higher baseline wMAPE, supporting our
hypothesis that a significant portion of the raw forecast error
is attributable to unaccounted demand transfer.
Across our test categories we observed consistent reductions
in wMAPE, supporting the efficacy of DT correction, which
helps to establish the efficacy of our approach to DT calcula-
tion at scale. This is particularly important for our use case,
where we need to estimate DT coefficients at scale for a large
number of items in a large number of categories.
Because actual customer substitution decisions are not di-
rectly observable in transaction data, forecast improvement
serves as a proxy validation metric for demand-transfer es-
timation. Future work will explore customer-level substitution
tracking to enable more direct validation of estimated coeffi-
cients.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we introduced and described our Restricted
Logit Model pipeline which is a modification of the original
MNL model proposed by Abdallah and Vulcano [3]. Our
Restricted Logit Model pipeline is created to solve the problem
of estimating Demand Transfer at scale when used in conjunc-
tion with the proposed substitution framework. Our method is
particularly useful in cases:
1) Where it is known that the underlying need state of the
items in the universe can differ.
2) Where item need-states are difficult to characterize.
3) Need states do not correspond perfectly with a set of
disjoint partitions of the item universe.
4) Where the item universe is huge having more than
millions of items.
To the best of our knowledge, few existing choice-model-
based approaches simultaneously provide explicit demand-
transfer coefficients, support overlapping need states, and
remain computationally tractable for item universes of the
scale considered in this work. While the proposed framework
has promising results, several opportunities remain for future
research. In particular, relaxing the Independence of Irrelevant
Alternatives (IIA) assumption through more flexible choice
models, such as Nested Logit or Mixed Logit formulations,
may better capture substitution behavior while preserving
scalability. Further benchmarking against alternative demand
transfer methods, including unrestricted MNL models, Markov
Chain choice models, and modern machine learning ap-
proaches, as well as component-level ablation studies, would
help provide a more comprehensive evaluation of the frame-
work’s effectiveness.
VII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The authors would like to acknowledge Avinash Thangali
for helpful discussions, contribution, and support.
REFERENCES
[1] Rosen, K. H. (2019). Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications (8th
ed.). McGraw-Hill.
[2] Kotler, P., Keller, K. L., & Chernev, A. (2021). Marketing Management
(16th ed.). Pearson.
[3] Abdallah, T., and Vulcano, G. (2021). Demand estimation under the
multinomial logit model from sales transaction data. Manufacturing &
Service Operations Management, 23(5), 1196–1216.
[4] Bai, H., and Shi, N. (2015). Assortment optimization with product level
demand and substitution information. SSRN Electronic Journal.
[5] Blanchet, J., Gallego, G., and Goyal, V. (2016). A Markov chain
approximation to choice modeling. Operations Research, 64(4), 886–
905.
[6] Farias, V. F., Jagabathula, S., and Shah, D. (2013). A nonparametric
approach to modeling choice with limited data. Management Science,
59(2), 305–322.
[7] Fisher, M., and Vaidyanathan, R. (2014). A demand estimation proce-
dure for retail assortment optimization with results from implementa-
tions. Management Science, 60(10), 2401–2415.
[8] Harris, C. R., Millman, K. J., van der Walt, S. J., Gommers, R.,
Virtanen, P., Cournapeau, D., Wieser, E., Taylor, J., Berg, S., Smith,
N. J., Kern, R., Picus, M., Hoyer, S., van Kerkwijk, M. H., Brett, M.,
Haldane, A., Fern´andez del R´ıo, J., Wiebe, M., Peterson, P., G´erard-
Marchant, P., Sheppard, K., Reddy, T., Weckesser, W., Abbasi, H.,
Gohlke, C., and Oliphant, T. E. (2020). Array programming with
NumPy. Nature, 585(7825), 357–362.
[9] Hyndman, R. J., Koehler, A. B., Ord, J. K., and Snyder, R. D. (2008).
Exponential Smoothing: A State Space Approach. Springer.
[10] Muniz, A. M., Jr., and Hamer, L. O. (1970). Us versus Them:
Oppositional brand loyalty and the Cola Wars. Advances in Consumer
Research, 27.
[11] MacKay, D. J. C. (2003). Information Theory, Inference, and
Learning Algorithms. Cambridge University Press. Available at:
https://www.inference.org.uk/itprnn/book.pdf
[12] Mahalanobish, O., Mishra, S., Das, A., and Misra, S. (2017). Capturing
demand transference in retail: A statistical approach. SSRN Electronic
Journal.
[13] McAuley, J., Pandey, R., and Leskovec, J. (2015). Inferring net-
works of substitutable and complementary products. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1506.08839.
[14] S¸ims¸ek, A. S., and Topalo˘glu, H. (2018). Technical note—An
expectation-maximization algorithm to estimate the parameters of the
Markov chain choice model. Operations Research, 66(3), 748–760.
[15] The Apache Software Foundation (2023). SparkR: R Front End for
Apache Spark. Available at: https://spark.apache.org/sparkr.html
[16] Tian, Y., Lautz, S., Willis, A. O. G., and Lambotte, R. (2021).
Extracting complements and substitutes from sales data: A network
perspective. EPJ Data Science, 10(1).
[17] Train, K. E. (2001). Discrete Choice Methods with Simulation. Cam-
bridge University Press.
[18] Vulcano, G., van Ryzin, G., and Ratliff, R. (2012). Estimating primary
demand for substitutable products from sales transaction data. Opera-
tions Research, 60(2), 313–334.
[19] Mason, C. H., & Milne, G. R. (1994). An approach for identifying can-
nibalization within product line extensions and multi-brand strategies.
Journal of Business Research, 31(2-3), 163-170.
[20] Xu, L. (2025). A clustering method for product cannibalization detec-
tion using price effect. Electronics, 14(15), 3120.
